---
title: "AI Agents"
date: 2026-02-18
author: rohidesh
tags: [ai]
permalink: /aiagents.html
---
# Introduction
- What are AI Agents?
- What are agentic workflows?
- How do you design agentic workflows?
- How do you develop AI Agents?

These are some of the questions that pop into my head as I hear more about AI Agents and Agentic AI.

## AI Agents
I have a fair idea of what AI Agents are - they are software applications capable of making their own decisions.
Making their own decisions is the key here. You could later segregate the decision making into planning, executing, learning, and adapting or evovling.
They need an LLM at their core for coming up with the tasks mentioned above.
The LLM is responsible for the generation part - Generative AI or GenAI.

## Agentic Workflows
Developers are automating lots of tasks using AI. The result is an AI enabled workflow that can be said to be agentic if it involves some decision making.
An example I heard recently was a Doctor sending his newsletters to an Agentic AI Workflow that then reads through the articles, converts the articles into podcasts that the Doctor could then listen to during commute. If you think about it, the workflow would be something like: read the different articles from the newsletters, create podcast scripts using LLM, convert text to speech to create audio files.
That was a great example to solve your own personal problem using AI.

## Designing Agentic Workflows
I guess it is hard to look at existing automated workflows and ask where can I fit AI into it.
We have to be clear when it comes to traditional automations like task and process automation, where a task or a set of chained tasks with a pre-defined sequence or conditions that can be clearly defined and are repeatable are automated.
Automation where any decision making is involved that is not pre-defined i.e. it is not a regular condition check that leads to one or more paths but dynamic flow based on input is where Agentic Workflows or Agentic Process Orchestration needs to be used.
Now, similar to the example from previous section what are the tasks or workflows that I could automate for helping me and my family.
Managing Finances - creating a financial health dashboard based on loans, investments, etc.
Planner app - to help plan work, personal commitments, learning, writing, and so on.

## Developing AI Agents
Open-source platforms and frameworks for building hobby or personal tools: LangChain, LangGraph, LangFlow, Microsoft Autogen, CrewAI, n8n, etc.
Enterprise grade platforms: OpenAI Frontier, Microsoft Azure AI Agent Service, Google Vertex AI Agent Builder, Salesforce Agentforce 360, UiPath Agentic Automation Platform